Title: Visualizing Goodness of Fit of Probabilistic Regression Models

Authors: Achim Zeileis, Moritz N. Lang, Reto Stauffer

Abstract:
Modeling in terms of entire probability distributions - as opposed to capturing
only the mean of a certain variable - is of prime importance in many different
disciplines from natural sciences to social sciences and beyond. Hence,
likelihood-based models and distributional regression have been receiving
increasing interest over the last decades. In order to assess the goodness of
fit along with potential deficits of such models, graphical evaluations in terms
of visualizations are an important complement to numerical evaluations (e.g.,
based on proper scoring rules).

Various types of diagnostic graphics have been suggested in the literature for
this purpose, e.g., PIT (probability integral transform) histograms, Q-Q
(quantile-quantile) plots of (randomized) quantile residuals, rootograms,
reliability diagrams, and worm plots, among others. However, discussion in the
literature and usage in practice is somewhat scattered across different
scientific communities, different types of variables (continuous vs. discrete
vs. categorical), and different software packages. To overcome these problems,
we present the visualizations above in a common conceptual framework accompanied
by a flexible and object-oriented software implementation in the R package
topmodels (https://topmodels.R-Forge.R-project.org/). It is discussed how all
these types of graphics can be understood as different strategies for
visualizing either the marginal fit (on the original scale of the observations)
or the conditional fit (on a probability or quantile scale). Using several
empirical examples, it is highlighted which types of displays are particularly
useful for bringing out which kind of model deficits.
